---
layout: page
title: YSChan's FAQ
permalink: /boardsfaq/
redirect_from: /node/9/
---

Welcome to YSchan's FAQ page. _Unfortunately, YSChan is currently down for the moment, so this FAQ page is left for historical purposes only._

## What is YSchan?

YSchan is a imageboard where anyone can post threads, make replies and share images and videos open and anonymously. YSchan’s format is based on 4chan (which is the most popular English-laniage imageboard website) 4chan's collaborative-community format is copied from one of the most popular forums in Japan, Futaba Channel. YSchan currently has two boards, one for the discussion of the imageboard culture and another for general discussion of any topic such as anime, news, tv shows, video games and other topics. Users do not need to register a username before participating in the community.

### How do I access the boards?

It’s simple: Click on the board you see on the board list on the left.

## Posting Tips

### What should I know before I post?

Users are encouraged to participate actively in our community in any way possible. As long as you follow the rules and learn the unwritten rules of the community, we won’t bother you. Rule violations may result in thread closure and/or post/thread deletion depending. Repeated or serious cases may result in a temporary or permanment post bans on a single board or the entire site.

### OK, how do I actually post?

There are two ways to post.

- If you choose to post without a name (posting anonymously), simple do not fill in the [Username] field when creating or replying to a thread. Your resulting post will have a default username depending on the board you post.
- If you choose to post with a Username, fill in the [Username] field when creating or replying to a thread

### Can I register a username?
Since this is an imageboard, there is no software for user registration. If you’re actually worried about somebody impersonating you, consider using a tripcode to help validate your identity.

### Must I post an image?

No, you do not have to. But you are encouraged to do so when creating a thread, since this is primarily an imageboard after all.

### Can I reply with an image?
Yes. To reply to a thread with an image of your own, click the [Reply] link and fill in the post box as you normally would, making sure to specify an image for attachment. If you plan on replying to a thread with multiple images, consider using the noko function to help speed up the process.

### How do I quote somebody?
To quote a portion of text, simply place a pointer (">") in front of the text you wish to highlight (ex. ">This is a quote"). To link to and highlight an entire post, place two pointers in front of its unique post number (ex. ">>210981").

### Can I do BBcode?
Yes, here are some bbcode functions

    [b]Bold[/b] ---> Bold
    [i]Italic[/i] ---> Italic
    [u]Underline[/u] ---> Underline
    [s]Strikeout[/s] ---> Strikeout
    [spoiler]Spoiler[/spoiler] ---> Spoiler
    [aa]AsciiArt[/aa] ---> AsciiArt

### Can I mark a submission as a spoiler?
Currently, only text can be spoilerized. In the mean time please link any images that will spoil movie/film/video games and mark them with the spoiler marks. To mark your image as a spoiler, check the [X Spoiler Image?] box before submission. Spoilerizing text makes it unreadable to others until they mouse over it. To spoilerize a comment, place [spoiler] tags around the text you wish to hide (ex. `[spoiler]SPIKE DIES![/spoiler]`). Misuse of these tags may result in post deletion.

### How do I use a "tripcode"?
Tripcodes can help verify a user's identity to others, and are a type of pseudo-registration. To use a normal tripcode, place an octothorpe ("#") followed by a word or short phrase after what you've entered into the [Name] field (ex. "User#password"). Upon submission, the server will generate the hash unique to that particular word or phrase. The previous example would display "User !ozOtJW9BFA" after being posted.
Important note: A tripcode is generated only using the text entered after the octothorpe. Your entered name, IP address, cookie information, etc. do not affect the output. Normal tripcodes are *not* secure; they can be cracked with relative ease.So please do not use your regular password for passworded sites as a tripcode, as a matter of fact, any tripcodem even secure tripcodes. For a more secure solution, see secure tripcodes.

### What is a "secure tripcode"?
A secure tripcode can be generated by placing two octothorpes in the [Name] field, as opposed to one as with a normal tripcode (ex. "User##password"). Secure tripcodes use a secret key file on the server to help obscure their password. The previous example would display "User !!Oo43raDvH61" after being posted.

### What is a capcode?
A capcode is a way of verifying someone as a teamYS member (Yotsuba Society staff member). Normal users do not have the ability to post using a capcode. A moderator capcode will display "## Mod ##" after their name. Likewise, the administrator capcode displays "## Admin ##" Often times, a moderator will post with the capcode anonymously or with their username. Historians and Archivers currently do not have a capcode.

### What is "sage"?
Entering "sage" (by itself) into the [E-mail] field while replying will cause the thread not to bump to the top of the page, while still counting against its reply count. Threads that reach their reply limit can no longer be bumped, causing them to sink to the back pages and be pruned more quickly. This is useful when it you want to add something to the thread but do not want to bump it. Abusing the sage function by "sage-bombing" is frowned upon and may result in a post ban.

### How can I stay in a thread after I post?
By entering "noko" into the [E-mail] field (by itself). After submission, you will be returned to the reply view of the thread you just posted in.

### How do I report posts?
Reporting posts for review is extremely encouraged, as it helps us remove rule breaking and/or illegal content faster. To file a report, check the box in the upper lefthand corner of the specific post you wish to flag, scroll down to the bottom of the page and you will see a field, fill out the reason why you’re reporting the post, and click the [Report] button. A confirmation dialogue will show confirming that the post has been reported.

Important note: Submitting false reports will result in a post ban. This policy is in place to discourage abuse of the system; it is not meant to dissuade users from submitting legitimate reports. So even if you may think that a post is not a rule violation but still problematic report it and let the staff handle it.

### How do I delete my own post(s)?
When you submit a post, you have the option of entering a deletion password in the [Password] field. If you do not specify a password, one will be automatically generated for you and cookied to your browser. As long as your browser retains this cookie, you will be able to delete posts made using it (the box should appear to be filled in automatically). Deletion is carried out similar to reporting. To delete your post(s), check the box in the upper lefthand corner of the specific post(s) you wish to remove, and scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the [Delete] button. The password field should be automatically filled in. If it is not, you must manually enter in the password you selected. Checking the [X File Only] box will cause only the image to be deleted, leaving the comment untouched.

### Why won't my thread bump?
All threads have a set bump limit (varies board to board). When this limit is reached, a thread is permasaged, and it will no longer "bump" to the top of the board, causing the thread to descend through the pages until it is marked for deletion and pruned. This method of post-limiting, while sometimes inconvenient, assures that content is kept fresh on the boards.

### What does "work safe" mean?
"Work safe" is defined as "content that is safe for viewing in the average working environment". Boards that default to the Yotsublue (blue) theme are to be considered work safe. That means no explicit sexual references or replies, or nudity. Posting content that is not suitable for this environment may result in a deletion and repeated violations may result in a post ban. The goal behind enforcing this rule is to keep the cleaner sections of the site accessible to those in restricted viewing situations.

### My post disappeared! Where'd it go?
Depending on the board’s pace, threads expire and are pruned by YSchan’s software at a relatively high rate. Since all boards are limited to sixten pages, content is usually available for only a few days before it is removed. Most times, the post was probably flagged as old and marked for deletion automatically, however in some cases it may have been removed by a moderator or an admin. We ask that users refrain from reposting material that they believe to have been deleted by the staff.

### My thread was closed! Why?
Threads get locked for many different reasons.
Usually, when a moderator locks a thread, they will post a message in that thread explaining why they have locked it along with their username and/or tripcode and capcode. Occasionally they will not post a reason if the reason for locking should be obvious to most people.

### Can I retrieve an old post/image?
Impossible. Content that expires is removed from our system entirely. Archives are not available. Please do not e-mail us requesting content that has been pruned, for it is impossible for us to assist you. Instead, try placing a request on the /r/ board.
As a matter of fact, you are encouraged to save threads or pictures you like locally into your hard drive.

### Can you help me contact a specific user?
Impossible. Unless a user elects to include an e-mail address, a IRC nick, or a AIM username in their post, there is no way to contact that user privately (outside of the imageboard). More details regarding our storage of personal information can be found here.

## Features

### What is a "sticky"?
"Stickied" threads are posts that are stuck (hence "sticky/stickied") to the top of a board's index page. A stickied thread is denoted by a small thumbtack icon placed next to its post number. Threads can only be stuck by moderators, and cannot be saged or otherwise unstuck by users. Trolling, sage-bombing, or reporting a sticky may result in a post ban.

### What is the blotter?
The blotter provides a short brief of recent site developments. It is minimized by default, and must be expanded by clicking the [Show/Hide] link below the submission form. We will be replacing the blotter with a twitter display later this year.

### Can you add "x" board?
Short answer: We just launched a few months ago! Long answer: We just launched YSchan around late Febuary 2011 before the entire Yotsuba Society website was up and ready. For now we have two boards for imageboard culture discussion (ys) and for general talk/discussion (gs). But we can add more boards as soon we get enough requests and traffic.
Issues

### Why doesn't "x" work properly?

Here are four common solutions to problems users might experience:

1. Enable first & third party cookies.
2. Enable JavaScript.
3. Don't block HTTP referals.
4. Whitelist yschan.org and all of its subdomains.

## Administration

### Does YSchan have any rules?

Yes, and all users are expected to learn and abide by out imageboard rules, which are available here.

### Who staffs this website?

Currently, Jkid and a few other board admins run the site.

### Who are the admins?
Jkid is the primary administrator and the co-founder and co-owner of Yotsuba Society.

### How can I contact him?

Contact us at YSjkid@gmail.com

### Who are the moderators?

Moderators are individuals selected to perform general site maintenance. They may delete posts globally, ban users(with admin approval unless for illegal content), sticky and close threads, etc. Currently we don’t have any moderators per se.

### Who are the administrators?
Administrators are individuals who supervise the board moderators, and have powers to add, delete, rename, and change the description of the boards, and create global announcements, plus do everything moderators can.

### Can I volunteer to become staff?
Not yet, when we have enough users we will have our own moderator recruitment round. Can’t reveal the details yet.

## Post Banishment

### How do I know if I am banned?
If you're banned from postingyou will be redirected to http://www.yschan.org/banned when trying to post in the the board(s) you're banned from posting. If you're getting 403 or 404 errors, this doesn't necessarily mean you're banned.

### Can I appeal my ban?
Yes. Use the embedded appeal tool on the banned page to appeal your ban. Read the entire banned page carefully before disputing your ban. If you are permanbannedm you are required to sit out for a two days before allowing you to appeal the ban. If you believe an error has been made, or you are being mistakenly affected by a ban meant for somebody else, contact a moderator on IRC at #YotsubaSociety @ Rizon.

## Technical

### What software does YSchan use?
YSchan runs a modified (forked) version of the Kubasa X imageboard software that we refer to internally as "YSKX” (Yotsuba Society Kubasa X). Our future plans is to make our code available to public open-source so that you can suggest improvements to the software.

## About

### When did YSchan Open?
February 2011.
